Step 3: Analyzing Data.
Now that you have your
data nicely prepared,
the next step is to analyze the data.
Data analysis involves building
a model from your data,
which is called input data.
The input data is used by the analysis
technique to build a model.
What your model generates
is the output data.
There are different types of problems, and
so there are different types
of analysis techniques.
The main categories of analysis techniques
are classification, regression,
clustering, association analysis,
and graph analysis.
We will describe each one.
In classification, the goal is to
predict the category of the input data.
An example of this is predicting
the weather as being sunny,
rainy, windy, or cloudy in this case.
Another example is to classify
a tumor as either benign or malignant.
In this case, the classification is
referred to as binary classification,
since there are only two categories.
But you can have many categories as well,
as the weather prediction problem
shown here having four categories.
Another example is to identify
handwritten digits as
being in one of the ten
categories from zero to nine.
When your model has to predict
a numeric value instead of a category,
then the task becomes
a regression problem.
An example of regression is to
predict the price of a stock.
The stock price is a numeric value,
not a category.
So this is a regression task
instead of a classification task.
Other examples of regression
are estimating the weekly sales of a new
product and
predicting the score on a test.
In clustering, the goal is to
organize similar items into groups.
An example is grouping a company's
customer base into distinct segments for
more effective targeted marketing
like seniors, adults and
teenagers, as we see here.
Another such example is identifying
areas of similar topography,
like mountains, deserts,
plains for land use application.
Yet another example is determining
different groups of weather patterns,
like rainy, cold or snowy.
The goal in association analysis
is to come up with a set
of rules to capture associations
within items or events.
The rules are used to determine when
items or events occur together.
A common application of association
analysis is known as market
basket analysis, which is used to
understand customer purchasing behavior.
For example, association analysis
can reveal that banking customers
who have certificate of deposit accounts,
surety CDs, also
tend to be interested in other investment
vehicles, such as money market accounts.
This information can be used for
cross-selling.
If you advertise money market
accounts to your customers with CDs,
they're likely to open such an account.
According to data mining folklore,
a supermarket chain used association
analysis to discover a connection between
two seemingly unrelated products.
They discovered that many customers who go
to the supermarket late on Sunday night
to buy diapers also tend to buy beer,
who are likely to be fathers.
This information was then
used to place beer and
diapers close together and
they saw a jump in sales of both items.
This is the famous diaper beer connection.
When your data can be transformed into
a graph representation with nodes and
links, then you want to use graph
analytics to analyze your data.
This kind of data comes about when
you have a lot of entities and
connections between those entities,
like social networks.
Some examples where graph analytics can
be useful are exploring the spread of
a disease or epidemic by analyzing
hospitals' and doctors' records.
Identification of security threats
by monitoring social media,
email and text data.
And optimization of mobile
communications network traffic.
telecommunications network traffic,
to ensure call quality and
reduce dropped calls.
Modeling starts with selecting,
one of the techniques we listed
as the appropriate analysis technique,
depending on the type of problem you have.
Then you construct the model
using the data you've prepared.
To validate the model,
you apply it to new data samples.
This is to evaluate how well the model
does on data that was
used to construct it.
The common practice is to divide
the prepared data into a set of data for
constructing the model and
reserving some of the data for
evaluating the model after
it has been constructed.
You can also use new data prepared the
same way as with the data that was used to
construct model.
Evaluating the model depends on the type
of analysis techniques you used.
Let's briefly look at how
to evaluate each technique.
For classification and regression,
you will have the correct output for
each sample in your input data.
Comparing the correct output and
the output predicted by the model,
provides a way to evaluate the model.
For clustering,
the groups resulting from clustering
should be examined to see if they
make sense for your application.
For example, do the customer
segments reflect your customer base?
Are they helpful for
use in your targeted marketing campaigns?
For association analysis and
graph analysis, some investigation will be
needed to see if the results are correct.
For example, network traffic delays
need to be investigated to see what your
model predicts is actually happening.
And whether the sources of the delays
are where they are predicted
to be in the real system.
After you have evaluated your model to get
a sense of its performance on your data,
you will be able to
determine the next steps.
Some questions to consider are,
should the analysis be
performed with more data in order
to get a better model performance?
Would using different data types help?
For example, in your clustering results,
is it difficult to distinguish
customers from distinct regions?
Would adding zip code
to your input data help
to generate finer grained
customer segments?
Do the analysis results suggest
a more detailed look at
some aspect of the problem?
For example, predicting sunny
weather gives very good results,
but rainy weather
predictions are just so-so.
This means that you should take a closer
look at your examples for rainy weather.
Perhaps you just need more
samples of rainy weather, or
perhaps there are some
anomalies in those samples.
Or maybe there are some missing data
that needs to be included in order
to completely capture rainy weather.
The ideal situation would be that your
model platforms very well with respect to
the success criteria that were determined
when you defined the problem at
the beginning of the project.
In that case, you're ready to
move on to communicating and
acting on the results that you
obtained from your analysis.
As a summary, data analysis involves
selecting the appropriate technique for
your problem, building the model,
then evaluating the results.
As there are different types of problems,
there are also different
types of analysis techniques.